it's colossal its ever hungry it tears
stars apart and not even light can
escape its gravity it's hard to embrace
the fact black holes exist and sure
they're absolutely impossible
mathematically let me explain starting
from what we think black holes are a
black hole appears when a huge star
meets the end of its lifecycle
eventually it runs out of all the
resources to further set itself ablaze
smaller stars like the Sun would simply
cool down and become brown dwarfs which
stars like this one are too massive
instead of cooling down they burst into
a huge supernova remains of the star
then collapse under their own gravity
into an infinitely dense done extremely
massive and tiny at the same time the
resulting black hole has an event
horizon a dark area of space where
gravity is so huge it overpowers even
the speed of light beyond the event
horizon lies an accretion disk gas
spinning at an incredible speed and
attracted to the black hole deep beyond
the impenetrable veil of the event
horizon lies a singularity singularity
is the point in which density becomes
Infinite and it breaks all nature's laws
we know of even math simply stops
working here because it can't properly
work with infinite numbers in other
words you can say singularity shouldn't
be possible black holes don't just
swallow matter around them they also
consume all the information about every
tiny particle they swallow in quantum
physics it's impossible for the
information to get simply deleted from
reality but that's what black holes do
despite the fact black holes slowly
evaporate and so give way their mass and
energy they won't return this
information to the universe and this
shouldn't be possible maybe astronomers
see something that looks and behaves
just like a black hole should but at the
same time math shows that black holes
can't exist at all without breaking lots
of nature's laws some scientists also
suggest that singularity
and form in a supernova and instead a
star should simply go boom with no black
hole appearing if no information can
just disappear then maybe it goes
somewhere else some simulations suggest
there's no singularity inside a black
hole in these simulations the pressure
inside the event horizon grows to the
extreme and then it suddenly becomes
weaker this would mean that there is
something else beyond the center of a
black hole it might be a wormhole a
tunnel going through the space-time
that's where we get to the idea of white
holes they're mirrored twins of black
holes they spew matter energy and
information around them and don't let
anything even light come in through
their event horizons white holes should
exist in theory but they're nowhere to
be found in the real universe they might
be the exit points of wormholes and we
don't see them because we only see
entering points black holes while white
holes are in some other unreachable
space for example in another universe
some researchers think we need to
replace the impossible singularity with
something more imaginable according to
them black holes are jam-packed with
another mystery of the universe the dark
energy this would solve two problems at
once but there's too much unknown about
dark energy to say for sure a planked
star may be another candidate to replace
singularity such a star would be much
more tangible than an infinitely dense
dot and would also contain all the
information lost beyond the event
horizon of a black hole while losing
mass with time a Planck star would
become bigger at some point meeting with
the event horizon itself and making a
black hole disappear in a burst of any
leftover mass and information
whatever astronomers call black holes
the universe wouldn't be the same
without them every galactic center we
know contains a supermassive black hole
in it it's possible these black holes
emerge long ago when galaxies only
started to form they might serve as
anchors that give shapes to galaxies and
keep them together without them
galaxies wouldn't exist or be completely
different otherwise black holes could
have appeared later than galaxies formed
and caused massive destruction in this
case they got supermassive only because
they had a lot to swallow in the center
of the galaxy where new stars form all
the time.if massive old stars didn't
burst into supernovas in the process of
becoming stellar black holes rare
elements wouldn't spread across the
universe for this reason the earth never
would have had elements like phosphorus
or nitrogen without them life could
never form on our planet and we wouldn't
exist some believe black holes will
eventually swallow all the universe so
it might be a good thing if they weren't
real but the fact is the universe is
simply too big even the largest black
hole won't be powerful enough to attract
distant stars to it a black hole without
matter around it to snack on is
completely harmless
black holes also help astronomers to
observe the far reaches of our universe
their gravitational fields attract light
to them and act like a magnifying glass
they distort the image but not beyond
recognition helping us to further map
the universe black holes existence was
first predicted by none other than
Albert Einstein in his theory of general
relativity developed between 1905 and
1915 according to it black holes should
exist but they're hard to see with any
kind of telescopes instead of looking
for black holes themselves astronomers
searched stars and gas clouds affected
by them
black holes disturbed the space around
them by a
tracking everything with gravity
sometimes astronomers saw stars spinning
around hardly visible massive objects
emitting x-rays which suggested that
they saw black holes if two black holes
collide with each other they release
ripples across the universe called
gravitational waves and astronomers were
able to detect those two and finally in
2019 scientists even took a photo of a
black hole there's just too much
evidence of black holes existence math
might show they're impossible but that's
because of misconceptions science still
has about them unfortunately it's
impossible to observe a black hole's
insides directly even if we find a way
to deliver a probe to one it would
simply get crushed by the black hole's
gravity and even if it goes beyond the
event horizon we won't get any
information back from there quite a
conundrum a
[Music]